
Here is some very basic information on how to start running ACT-R 7 from 
sources, but the recommendation now is to use the standalone version
instead of the sources.

As of version 7.6, using the ACT-R sources requires that QuickLisp be 
installed for the Lisp being used because ACT-R now uses some external 
libraries for network communication and threading.  QuickLisp isa available
from: <https://www.quicklisp.org>.


1) Get the source code either from the software page of the ACT-R website 
<http://act-r.psy.cmu.edu/software> or the subversion repository at 
<svn://act-r.psy.cmu.edu/actr7.x>.  The official release on the website 
is recommended because it has been more thoroughly tested and should be 
consistent with the documentation whereas the repository may contain updates
that have not been as thoroughly tested or documented.


2) In your Lisp application, load the load-act-r.lisp file which is found at 
the top level of the ACT-R sources.  That will load all of the necessary ACT-R
files, get and load the necessary libraries through QuickLisp, and start the
remote interface server.  

Once the ACT-R version information is printed it is ready to use.  

If you would like to use the ACT-R Environment GUI then you can run the
appropriate application for your OS in the environment directory of the sources
("Start Environment.exe", "Start Environment OSX", or "start environment Linux").
Once the buttons appear in the "Control Panel" window the ACT-R Environment
is ready to use.  When you are done with the ACT-R Environment, closing the
"Control Panel" window will exit the application.

If you are using LispWorks or Allegro Common Lisp with either Mac OS X or 
Windows or using Clozure Common Lisp with Windows, Mac OS X, or Linux, then you 
can also start the environment from Lisp using the function run-environment.  
That should automatically run the appropriate Environment application, but 
run-environment may not work on all machines for a variety of reasons.  If 
run-environment does not start the Environment application you will have to
run the application explicitly.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you have any questions, problems, or comments please send them to 
Dan (db30@andrew.cmu.edu).
